.TH STARS 1
.SH NAME
stars \- perform astrological functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stars
[
.B -dtz
]
.I planet
.BR
 
.BR
.B stars -b
[
.B -dglqtvz
]
.I profile-name
.BR
 
.BR
.B stars -H
[
.B -1dz
]
.I profile-name
.BR
 
.BR
.B stars -i
.I (page)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Stars
provides a suite of astrological tools, aiming to produce a much cheaper equivalent of consulting a professional astrologer. 
There are four different modes available: planetary mode, profile mode, horoscope mode, and wiki mode (
respectively with the options listed in the 
.B SYNOPSIS
).
.BR
 
.BR
The following (case sensitive) are valid values for
.I planet:
.BR
 
.BR
.B su[n], ea[rth]
- (geocentric) Sun
.BR
 
.BR
.B mo[on]
- (geocentric) Moon
.BR
 
.BR
.B me[rcury]
- (heliocentric) Mercury
.BR
 
.BR
.B ve[nus]
- (heliocentric) Venus
.BR
 
.BR
.B ma[rs]
- (heliocentric) Mars
.BR
 
.BR
.B ju[piter]
- (heliocentric) Jupiter
.BR
 
.BR
.B sa[turn]
- (heliocentric) Saturn
.BR
 
.BR
.B ur[anus]
- (heliocentric) Uranus
.BR
 
.BR
.B ne[ptune]
- (heliocentric) Neptune
.BR
 
.BR
.B pl[uto]
- (heliocentric) Pluto
.BR

.BR
Only the first two characters of any body are necessary, and everything after them will be accepted but ignored.
.BR
 
.BR
In planet mode,
.I stars
will produce all active transits for an astral body, what sign and house it is in, and additional characteristics. It takes a valid
.I planet
as an argument.
It can also use the flags
.B -d, -t
and
.B -z
in order to look at a body on a particular time rather than right now.
.B -z
can specify the time zone the time is being provided in, as an argument. 
This will default to the computer's time zone. 
This option is unnecessary unless you specify 
.B -d
and/or 
.B -t.
.B -d
should take a date in the form of MM/DD/YYYY. 
This should be the date in the specified time zone.
This defaults to
.I tmnow(2).
.B -t
should take a time in the form of HH:MM:SS.
The seconds cannot be omitted.
.BR
 
.BR
In profile mode,
.I stars
creates a profile for a user and provides the user's birth chart. 
Provided data is stored in /lib/stars/profile/[name] and can be reused to reproduce the birth chart or produce individual horoscopes.
Here,
.I stars
takes the flags [
.B -dglqQtvz
].
.B -d
.B -t
and
.B -z
require the same input format and have the same defaults as in planet mode, but here indicate the date, time, and timezone of birth (respectively) for the profile.
.B -l
indicates the latitude and longitude of birth and should be in the format
.B -l
LATITUDE,LONGITUDE.
The latitude and longitude need to be in decimal format, not degrees/minutes/seconds. The default is the equator and prime meridian.
.BR
 
.BR
.B -g
takes an argument of the form [NMF][NMF], indicating the pronouns to be used by the program in referring to the person represented by the profile and prospective partners thereof.
N means neutral ("they").
The default is NN.
.BR
 
.BR
.B -q,
.B -Q,
and
.B -v
control the amount of output given by
.I stars -b:
.B -Q
suppresses all output entirely,
.B -q
gives only the Sun, moon, and rising signs for the profile, and
.B -v
gives additional information for the profile, including signs for houses, Lilith (dark moon), Ceres, Chiron, and Eris.
.BR
 
.BR
In horoscope mode (
.I stars -H
),
.I stars
will output relevant transits and associated horoscopes for a profile (whose name should be given as input).
This takes
.B -dz
flags exactly like in planet mode.
It also takes the
.B -1
flag, where it will produce a horoscope only if the profile has not received one already today (useful for automation).
With the
.B -n
flag, given a number, the number of horoscopes produced will not exceed that number.
.BR
 
.BR
In wiki mode,
.I stars -i
can be used to read pages of information about astrological concepts.
It is intended to provide introductory information for beginners in astrology to learn about everything necessary to understand the program's output, and does not span the entire breadth of astrological knowledge.
Without an argument, it will produce a list of possible pages, and to read pages, a page name can be passed as the argument.
The pages are in Troff format, resembling manual pages, and can be found in /lib/stars/info.
The wiki categories are:
.BR
 
.BR
1 : Broad concepts
2 : More specific general concepts
3 : Understanding horoscopes and planetary positions
4 : Zodiac signs
5 : Planets and placements
